# Final-Project-Tableau

## Project/Goals

For my tableau Dashboard project i decided to take a look at the FIFA 18 Player data. Specifically i wanted to compare the various stats of each player against their age as well as their wage and perveived value to their FCs.

## Process

### Connecting the Data

Connecting to the data was simple it was provided to me through a .csv file which can be found in the \data\ folder of this repo.

### Generating Charts

This was the main portion of the project. Since i knew generally what i wanted to analyze i Stayed focused on a limited amount of features found in the data set like:

- Value
- Wage
- Overall
- Acceleration
- Balance
- Ball Control
- Finishing
- KG reflexes
- Reactions
- Nationalities

## Results

For my first visualization i created a pair of continuous area charts comparing the Avg.Value(euros) and the Avg.Wage(euros) of all the players against their ages.

- It was not clear at first that even though younger players are more valued at their clubs their wage was lagging behind compared to their perceived value to the club. To make this more clear i combined the pair of area charts into a dual lines chart.
- Younger = High value, Lower wage
- Older = Low value, Higher wage

The Next chart i made was each player Avg.Overall stat against their age. I fell as though this chart was alright for analysis but i chose not to include it in my final dashboard.

- Interesting points in this chart were some of the older players retained a higher avg overall rank causing very drastic jumps in the graph

Next i chose to create a packed bubbles charts where i created a calculated field to determmine the age gap between players based on their nationality.
this chart was visually interesting but at a glance was hard to determine any patterns

- Green and small = less age gap
- Red and large = more age gap

Next i created another group of continuous area charts since they are more interesting looking than simple line graphs. Here i am comparing the various avg. skills of the players against their age.

- younger players = not a lot of varience
- older players = lots of varience

Next i want to look at the highest avg rank of players by nationality and their wages. To do this i used a pair of bar charts and i was suprised to see that even though the player from nations with the highest avg overall rank were among some of the least paid.

Next was a simple horizontal bar chart copunting the number of players per nation.

This chart gave way to the next one which is a map showing the number of players from each nation which is then clustered by colour according the some range that was auto generated by Tableau

## Challenges

One of the major challenges was that some the auto generated lat. and lon. based on the nationality comlumn were not able to be put on the map since tableau did not recognize these countries individually. i had to manually select a location for these since tableau did not.

- Wales
- N. ireland
- Scotland
- Britain
- S.korea
- China

## Future Goals

I am not confident i created the correct graphs to convey my findings in an interesting way so a future goal would be to simply practice this kind of work more.
